Added clarification around event handlers (#18642)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/programming-guide/events/how-to-publish-events-that-conform-to-net-framework-guidelines.md

---
title: "How to publish events that conform to .NET Framework Guidelines - C# Programming Guide"
ms.date: 05/26/2020
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "events [C#], implementation guidelines"
ms.assetid: 9310ae16-8627-44a2-b08c-05e5976202b1
---

# How to publish events that conform to .NET Framework Guidelines (C# Programming Guide)

The following procedure demonstrates how to add events that follow the standard .NET Framework pattern to your classes and structs. All events in the .NET Framework class library are based on the <xref:System.EventHandler> delegate, which is defined as follows:

```csharp
public delegate void EventHandler(object sender, EventArgs e);
```

> [!NOTE]
> The .NET Framework 2.0 introduces a generic version of this delegate, <xref:System.EventHandler%601>. The following examples show how to use both versions.

Although events in classes that you define can be based on any valid delegate type, even delegates that return a value, it is generally recommended that you base your events on the .NET Framework pattern by using <xref:System.EventHandler>, as shown in the following example.

> The name `EventHandler` can lead to a bit of confusion, as the delegate itself doesn't actually handle the event but instead is used to raise the event. The <xref:System.EventHandler>, and generic <xref:System.EventHandler%601> are intended to represent a method that will handle an event.

Reviewer: Consider this language instead:

```suggestion
The name `EventHandler` can lead to a bit of confusion as it doesn't actually handle the event. The <xref:System.EventHandler>, and generic <xref:System.EventHandler%601> are delegate types. A method or lambda expression whose signature matches the delegate definition is the *event handler* and will be invoked when the event is raised.
```

### To publish events based on the EventHandler pattern

1. (Skip this step and go to Step 3a if you do not have to send custom data with your event.) Declare the class for your custom data at a scope that is visible to both your publisher and subscriber classes. Then add the required members to hold your custom event data. In this example, a simple string is returned.

    ```csharp
    public class CustomEventArgs : EventArgs
    {
        public CustomEventArgs(string message)
        {
            Message = message;
        }

>         public string Message { get; set; }

Reviewer: I'd make this readonly:

```suggestion
        public string Message { get; }
```

Author: I did initially, and then it broke some code. It is appended to later, see [line 222](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/18642/files#diff-58e13354452c4c47d554013a02f59919R222)
